"Meanwhile in Annapolis"
AQ <aq@okaq.com>
2019-05-18

A Military Academy Romance

Inspired by Navy Blue and Gold, 1937
James Stewart as Plebe "Truck" Cross
and Lionel Barrymore as Captain Dawes
available via YouTube

Classic dorm room scene confrontation
It's Clift in From Here To Eternity
Telling his CO he doesn't wanna fight no more
This is about the language, precision thought
Necessary in the Fog of War

Open on a spontaneous "inspection"
in the dorms, our heros caught mid-planning their caper / prank

"Looking well charged, Captain!"

"A picture of laudable industry and application"

Bards of The Martial Lyre, indeed

After a penetrating oracular once twict thrice over, the
officers perfunctory yet dutiful rummaging of closets,
peeking under bunks, wiping a finger along a sink's edge, etc

"Thought for a moment I noticed a speck of mildew on
Mr. Ash's vestibular. Turned out to be a mirage"

The Captain clocks Plebe Cross clocking his leather knapsack

And immediately dumps its contents on to his bunk

A careful roll call inventory book by book proceeds

"Physics for Sailors. Regulation.
Whitstar's Navigation. Regulation.
Jane's Battleships. Hull Design. Knots. Winds. Ocean Tactics.
All Regulation"

He spots a thin paperback

"Antonin Artaud. Van Gogh / Artist in Society.
This does not appear to be Regulation, Mr. Cross"

"It's for the French Poetry elective, Captain"

"Perhaps, Mr. Cross has tired of Longfellow and Frost,
And wishes to seek inspiration from our Allies"

"All in the name of beneficial Trans-Atlantic harmony, sir"

A poetry test ensues, humbling the plebes

Now the screws are turned

"You do not think it good form to engage in fistocuffs
with your seniors?"

"You are a grid iron gladiator, are you not?"

"And did not the newspapers take heed of your sterling
aptitude in pigskinnery?"

His "garden of memory" scrapbook is produced

"I'm sure we couldn't to justice to the recital of such
literature. Perhaps Mr. Ash could read us those accounts
in a more thrilling and sympathetic manner"

"Whirling Dervish! Who shuddered in ecstacy..."

"Such heroic writing demands heroic reading"

Mr. Ash is made to stand on the desk,
whirl as a dervish in highest passion,
while exposing lyrically on his exploits as 
The "Golden Streak"

When the worst event possible occurs

In walks Mlle Potrice, the French tutors assistant

Cross, Ash, and Finagle know the jig is up


