"Bell's Inequality"
AQ <aq@okaq.com>
2019-05-13

John Bell, bearded gnomon, pocket protector
loaded with implements weighing down the
front piece of a very inexpensive short sleeved
button down shirt, theoretical physicist at a time
when quantum formalism was averse to questionings
from outside the established "interpretations",
ambles slowly across the IAS campus, on his way
to breakfast at the dining hall.

A devoted scientist since infancy, his typical
concerns lie with Great Questions. What is the
true nature of reality? Can the gap between
classical mechanics and modern quantum results
ever be bridged?

But on this day, his immediate tasks are more
mundane. The design of a new linear particle
accelerator.

This break from theory has proved a welcome
sabbatical.

No way Bell in the Sixties could have anticipated
the profusion of what is to come. Information
processing machines based upon the Qubits
theorized in his day now number in the millions.
From Quantum GANs to Quantum Cryptographic Locks.
Keeping secrets to managing trillions in public debt.
All based in part on the "Eureka" moment about to occur.

But on a fine summer morning, his sole thoughts a million
parsecs away from teleportation gates, or a supreme
machine intelligence colonizing and enslaving its
human creators.

His thoughts turn to the quotidian needs of everyday Man.

What shall I have for lunch?

The cafe at IAS is a hotbed. Intellectual foment in the
line to acquire your meal tray. Heated discussions of
myriad topics in natural phenomenon. Plates remaining
untouched as the morsels of conversation abet a 
different kind of appetite. 

And there stands John Bell at the counter. Even amongst
the intelligentsia he stands apart. 

Hard Belfast winter's evidence lining the perceptive
brow, as he basks in the summer sunlight streaming
through the windows. As all thinking people, he loathes
wasting unnecessary processor cycles on trivial
decision making. But on this resplendant noon, he
cannot place his mood.

"Hmmm mushroom fritatta or the halibut? Descisions,
descisions."

Cara, the lunch attendant, is amenable to perfection.


