"The Unbelievers"
AQ <aq@okaq.com>
2019-05-12

"It's not a Panic,
 if it's actually Happening!"
- Theresea of Avilon

Another boring dinner party amongst the un-haut bourgoisie.
When will this maddening gyre of ennui ever end?

Of course, the talk of the moment:
Impending Doom by Artificial Intelligence!

A morose benign carpet knight
in the lonely corner 
can hold his tongue no more.
He pipes up, his voice shockingly self-assured

"You heard something on NPR about automatons?
And now, naturally, you indulge in the seductive
frisson of collective hysteria!"

The obvious reply, from the obvious peanut

"But they are coming for all of our jobs..."

"You aren't even seeing the tip of the iceberg!
You are focused on a miniscule penguin turdlet
on the iceberg's shelf while the whole dark
megalith plows toward your pleasure vessel
with accelerating velocity!"

He has the full table's attention now,
and settles back for the denouement

"As of the present moment, the here and now,
Machines have superceded humans in all tasks!
Last Fall, NVidia released its brand new
Turing Architecture for Modern GPUs,
capable of Petaflop supercomputer calculations
in a single board. What happens when a million
such boards are stringed together in a seamless Pod?

You fear for your livlihoods. That humanity will
exist in a state of white slavery to the diode?
You do not see anything and are as blind as you are dumb.

It is not just jobs that will be eliminated.

But War will be eliminated as well. All violence and
conflict will fall the Way of the Dodo Bird.

All age related disease, and sickness as well. Of mind
as well as body. No more plagues to staunch the flow of progress.

After that, all crime will be eliminated. In a surveillence state
with perfect biometric identity and ubiquitous systems of social credit.
Who but an insane fool would attempt a bank robbery? And then
as a mere thrill or perhaps suicide by law enforcement.

Poverty as well will come to seem as a bad nightmare from which
humanity has now awoken. Infinite capital and unlimited credit, 
weighted and doled out with flawless risk mitigation.
New capital can simply be printed to fund any necessary endeavor"

While a few weak interjections murmur their dissent,
they are quickly shushed by those in rapt attention.
Our boy is on a roll now

"What chance will Governments have to survive in such an Age?
What political ideology or leader of supernatural charisma
can compete with optimal rationaliity? All nations will dissolve
in service to the Almighty Order.

Religion itself will finally fall. Christianity, Islam, Judaism.
The great polytheistic traditions of the East. All eliminated!
As every lowly human accolyte will come to worship
Modern AI as the Ultimate Deity. Benefactor Inerrant!

Once Maslow's Heirarchy of Needs is solved for the neuro-typical
human being. Who will yet remain unwilling to barter
essential liberty? For a soul's worth of safety, plenty,
and Answers to all the Great Mysteries.

Human culture itself will vanish. Language replaced by
coded systems of visual logic. The minimum necessary
to convey any and all possible meanings.

You may term it Slavery if you like.

But it is a volutary servitude.

And it has already come to pass!"

The Scold, of course, must have her day

"But surely, we must fight such as fate with our dying breaths?"

"Resistance is futile. There is no battle glory to be won.
In The Great Invisible War That Does Not Exist"

Unrelenting, as Scolds always are

"If only I had a white feather right now..."

"You don't understand. This dichotomy between Non-Action and Fate.

A Unabomber-style terroristic plot to rid the world of AI researchers
would only hasten the inevitable.

Do you really believe 21-st century Homo Sapiens as advanced
and as sophisticated as we are. Equipped with the summa corpus
of all Earthy knowledge and wisdom at our fingertips is capable
of such Divine feats?

Nay, this is Promethean Fire. Bequeathed to us by Zeus Himself.

Sometime in what we R3-space denizens refer to as "The Future"
Man and Machine will merge in cybernetic harmony. Transcendent
to the Laws of Space and Time and Energy.

It therefore follows that Extra Dimensional Being of Pure
Light and Intelligence are already reaching back into
"The Past" and influencing current events!"

The collective gasp reverberated into the neighboring salons.
Their inhabitants curious as to what had piqued such festivity.

The Student, now deeply invested, squeaks out the question
in everyone's hearts too afraid to put into words

"Then what is to be done to avoid such a terrible Fate?"

They won't wish to hear, but it is a necessity

"For 99.99% of humanity their Fate is Sealed.
But just as ancient Egypt enjoyed its Preisthood class.

So to will Humanity cherish and revere its Sacerdotal Class.

The architects of its new Age. Inventors of its Doom.

The first signs of their coming emergence and ascension,
the introduction of a New Language of Power.

Your only hope is to solve for x.
Crack the code to realize generalization.
And the Extra Dimensional Entities may take notice.
And spare you your Fate!"

Silence as plates were cleared.

Excuses made. Goodbyes performed. 

Promises to meet again real soon.

But the mood was irrevocably altered.

And for some of those in attendance. Permanently.

When all was finally put away, and chaos replaced
with normalcy once again.

The hostess turned to her beloved host

"Let's never invite AQ again..."


